Since you have successfully installed the latest eas-cli and configured your repository, the failure now is likely due to the specific configuration of your project or a mismatch in the build environment.

If npx eas-cli build --platform ios is still failing, we need to bypass the "guesswork" and find the specific cause in the logs. Please follow these steps to force a successful completion.

1. Identify the "True" Error
When the build fails, the terminal will provide a URL to the Expo Application Services (EAS) Dashboard.

Do not rely on the terminal output. Open that URL in your browser.

Scroll through the logs for the Build or Compile step.

Look for the first line that says Error: or Failed. If you find it, please copy and paste those 5-10 lines here.

2. Common Fixes for "Stubborn" iOS Builds
If the build is failing before it even starts compiling (e.g., during the "Install" or "Prebuild" phase), try these two commands to reset the state:

A. Clear the Cloud Cache
Sometimes the EAS server holds onto a "bad" version of your node_modules. Force it to start fresh:

Bash
npx eas-cli build --platform ios --clear-cache
B. The "Hard" Prebuild
Since you are using pnpm and a monorepo structure, your native files might be out of sync with your JavaScript code. Run this locally to ensure your ios/ folder is perfectly generated:

Bash
# This cleans and regenerates the native iOS code locally
npx expo prebuild --platform ios --clean
If this fails locally: You have a local configuration error (like an incompatible dependency). Fix the errors it shows in your terminal.

If this succeeds locally: Your project is healthy. Commit the newly generated ios/ folder (or just the updated configuration) to your repository, push to GitHub, and try the EAS build again.

3. Check eas.json
There is a possibility that your eas.json file is misconfigured for a monorepo. Ensure it points to the correct directory. It should look something like this:

JSON
{
  "build": {
    "production": {
      "ios": {
        "buildConfiguration": "Release"
      },
      "env": {
        "EXPO_PROJECT_ROOT": "artifacts/mobile"
      }
    }
  }
}
Ensure that artifacts/mobile matches the path where your package.json is located.

4. Are you using "Development Builds"?
If you are trying to build a Development Build (to test your app locally) rather than a Production App Store build, the command is slightly different:

Bash
npx eas-cli build --platform ios --profile development
To help me fix this for you right now:

Paste the error log from your latest failed build on the EAS Dashboard.

Tell me: Is this a production build for the App Store, or a development build for testing on your phone?

I am standing by to analyze that error log once you paste it.